DED- 96 Documentation for building apps for HelpDesk (#1230)
livechat/livechat-public-docs: src/pages/getting-started/helpdesk-apps/index.mdx

---
weight: 6
category: "getting-started"
subcategory: "helpdesk-apps"
title: "Building HelpDesk apps"
tagline: "Learn all the ways to build upon HelpDesk."
desc: "Do you want to create a HelpDesk app and automate some tasks or processes for your agents? Now, it's all possible. Implement convenient tweaks for your team, build integrations with other platforms, and create new products in the HelpDesk ecosystem."
---

# Introduction

[Developer Console](https://developers.livechat.com/console/) allows you not only to create [LiveChat Apps](/getting-started/livechat-apps). It is also possible to develop integrations for <a href="https://www.helpdesk.com/" target="_blank">HelpDesk</a> and publish them on the Marketplace.

Connect your HelpDesk to an external tool or service, extend HelpDesk user interface, or automate various tasks. Configure different functionalities, integrate with the LiveChat ecosystem, or create your own custom actions for agents in HelpDesk.

> # App capabilities

Author: ```suggestion
# Use cases
```

LiveChat provides developers with multiple tools which allow your app to do many different things, for example:

- Integrate with other products and services
- Extend HelpDesk user interfaces
- Create your own custom actions for agents in HelpDesk
- Automate tasks with webhooks
- Let users sign in to your service with Sign in with LiveChat

> If you plan to make your app public for everyone, check out our [monetization](/monetization/how-to-monetize-apps) and distribution tools.

Author: So linking Marketplace under `distribution tools` and getting rid of the link under `monetization`? Do I get it right?

> If you plan to make your app public for everyone, check out our [monetization](/monetization/how-to-monetize-apps) and distribution tools.

Author: I linked Marketplace under `distribution tools` and removed the link from `monetization` :)

# Creating HelpDesk apps

## Step-by-step guide

If you want to create a simple HelpDesk app in the Developer Console, follow the instructions we’ve prepared. We'll use an app named Your Buddy as our example.

### Step 1 Getting started

To start, you need to check if you are signed in to the <Placeholder id="DEVELOPER_CONSOLE_URL" />. You can <a href="https://accounts.livechat.com/signup" target="_blank">sign up here</a>. However, your LiveChat or HelpDesk credentials should log you in automatically. 

The first step in the Developer Console is to go to the **Apps** tab and click the **Create new app +** button. Give your app a name and click the **Continue** button. The application's name can be changed later.

<img
  alt="Creating HelpDesk apps"
  src="/images/getting-started/helpdesk-apps/livechat-helpdesk-apps-creating new app.png"
  width="1459px"
  height="771px"
/>

> Next, you need to decide which product you want to build your app for. In this tutorial guide, we will take care of the HelpDesk product. However, if you would like to check out how to build LiveChat apps, find more details [here](/getting-started/livechat-apps). The logo of the chosen product will be visible on the left side of your screen, under the **Building Blocks** tab.

Reviewer: "However, if you would like to check out how to build LiveChat apps, find more details [here](/getting-started/livechat-apps)." 

It's a good idea to link to the LiveChat tutorial, but I would either put it somewhere else or shorten it, so that it doesn't distract the user.

> Next, you need to decide which product you want to build your app for. In this tutorial guide, we will take care of the HelpDesk product. Want to build for LiveChat instead? See the tutorial.

> Next, you need to decide which product you want to build your app for. In this tutorial guide, we will take care of the HelpDesk product. However, if you would like to check out how to build LiveChat apps, find more details [here](/getting-started/livechat-apps). The logo of the chosen product will be visible on the left side of your screen, under the **Building Blocks** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you need to decide which product you want to build your app for. In this tutorial guide, we will cover HelpDesk. However, if you would like to check out how to build LiveChat apps, find more details [here](/getting-started/livechat-apps). The logo of the chosen product will be visible on the left side of your screen, under the **Building Blocks** tab.
```

Reviewer: take care of sounded off to me

> Next, you need to decide which product you want to build your app for. In this tutorial guide, we will take care of the HelpDesk product. However, if you would like to check out how to build LiveChat apps, find more details [here](/getting-started/livechat-apps). The logo of the chosen product will be visible on the left side of your screen, under the **Building Blocks** tab.

Author: I thought that putting the next screen would be too much. However, I agree, we can skip this sentence as it is really clear and visible in the Console.

<div style={{maxWidth: '450px'}}>
  <img src="/images/getting-started/helpdesk-apps/livechat-helpdesk-apps-choosing-product.png" alt="Creating HelpDesk apps choosing the product" width="557px" height="386px"/>
</div>

If you do not have a HelpDesk account, you will be asked to activate it. If you want to activate HelpDesk and start a free trial, click **Activate HelpDesk** button.

<div style={{maxWidth: '450px'}}>
  <img src="/images/getting-started/helpdesk-apps/livechat-helpdesk-apps-activating account.png" alt="Creating HelpDesk apps activating account" width="279px" height="230px"/>
</div>

> 💡 **Need a helping hand?** Right after signing in to the Developer Console, you can launch the **App Wizard**. We go there with guidelines for the LiveChat app creation process, but it can also be very helpful while exploring HelpDesk.

Author: I agree, that may be pointless

> 💡 **Need a helping hand?** Right after signing in to the Developer Console, you can launch the **App wizard**. We go there with guidelines for the LiveChat app creation process, but it can also be very helpful while exploring HelpDesk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
💡 **Need a helping hand?** Right after signing in to the Developer Console, you can launch the **App Wizard**. We go there with guidelines for the LiveChat app creation process, but it can also be very helpful while exploring HelpDesk.
```

### Step 2 Adding HelpDesk Widgets block

> You can form your app using components called Building blocks. Each building block works differently. To read more about Building Blocks, click the **Read more** redirect or go to the [App guides](/getting-started/app-guides) section in our documentation.

Reviewer: You have 3 versions:

- Building blocks
- Building Blocks
- building block

Author: How could I have not noticed that! I will stick to the `Building Block` option.

> You can form your app using components called Building blocks. Each building block works differently. To read more about Building Blocks, click the **Read more** redirect or go to the [App guides](/getting-started/app-guides) section in our documentation.

Reviewer: "To read more (...) click the Read more" - quite repetitive

> You can form your app using components called Building blocks. Each building block works differently. To read more about Building Blocks, click the **Read more** redirect or go to the [App guides](/getting-started/app-guides) section in our documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can form your app using components called Building blocks. Each building block works differently. To read more about Building Blocks, click the **Read more** redirect or go to [App guides](/getting-started/app-guides).
```

Reviewer: I'm shortening where possible

> You can form your app using components called Building blocks. Each building block works differently. To read more about Building Blocks, click the **Read more** redirect or go to the [App guides](/getting-started/app-guides) section in our documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
You can form your app using components called Building Blocks. Each Building Block works differently. To read more about Building Blocks, click the **Read more** redirect or go to the [App guides](/getting-started/app-guides) section in our documentation.
```

In this guide, we will use the HelpDesk Widgets building block. Widgets are web apps that can interact and communicate with the HelpDesk App. They are loaded inside the HelpDesk App interface.

<img
  alt="Creating HelpDesk apps building blocks"

>   src="/images/getting-started/helpdesk-apps/livechat-helpdesk-apps-building-blocks.png"

Author: to be changed as the name of the Onboarding & Settings has been changed and In-app Upgrades has been removed.

  width="1460px"
  height="796px"
/>

To add a new Widget to your application, you need to follow these steps:

1. Go to the **Building blocks** tab.
2. Add a new HelpDesk Widgets block by clicking the **+ Add building block** button and then choosing **HelpDesk Widgets**.
3. Enter the **Widget source URL**, which is the address of your application. If it's not ready yet, you can use our [sample apps](/extending-agent-app/agent-app-sdk#sample-apps) to play around.
4. Now, go to the **Widget placement** and choose one of the options. It allows you to decide where exactly in the HelDesk App you want to display your integration. We've chosen the **Full screen** option in our example. In the HelpDesk App, Full screen apps are located in the navigation bar on the left, and they open maximized in the HelpDesk App. [Learn more...](/extending-agent-app#main-menu-fullscreen-apps)

> 5. The **Opening state** section is not required and works only for the **Ticket Details** widget placement. It allows you to add components to your application and see a live preview of what the app will look like in the **Opening state preview**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The **Opening state** section isn't required and works only for the **Ticket Details** widget placement. It allows you to add components to your application and see a live preview of what the app will look like in the **Opening state preview**.
```

Reviewer: "see a live preview of what the app will look like in the **Opening state preview**."
It doesn't really explain much

Author: I have a screen in the HelpDesk Widgets BB showing what it looks like, so I believe that if I link it here (like I described below about the component) that would be the best solution as for me, explaining it with words, might be confusing. This BB is created h[ere](https://github.com/livechat/livechat-public-docs/pull/1234)

> 5. The **Opening state** section is not required and works only for the **Ticket Details** widget placement. It allows you to add components to your application and see a live preview of what the app will look like in the **Opening state preview**.

Reviewer: I think we should elaborate on this option. We could explain:
- where users can take these components from
- in what format these components should be
- what options are available

Author: You are right - I will link the HelpDesk BB where I have them listed and linked to the descriptions. But the BB is in a separate PR so for now,the link will not work:)

<img
  alt="Creating HelpDesk apps adding Display Details"
  src="/images/getting-started/helpdesk-apps/livechat-helpdesk-apps-private-instalation.png"
  width="1460px"
  height="796px"
/>

When the installation is done, you can return to your HelpDesk App and refresh the page. After doing that, you’ll see your widget.

Please remember that your widget placement in the HelpDesk App will depend on which widget placement you've chosen while creating the new HelpDesk Widget.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/app-review-process/#common-problems"}>
  💡 Take a look at things to remember when testing the app
</SectionLink>

<img
  alt="Creating HelpDesk apps adding Display Details"
  src="/images/getting-started/helpdesk-apps/livechat-helpdesk-apps-ready-app.png"
  width="1460px"
  height="796px"
/>

Congratulations! Now, you can enjoy your simple application under your license. If you want to build a public app, please go to the [app review process page](/monetization/app-review-process), where you’ll get all the necessary details on this process and find out how to submit your application for review.

> 

Author: W building LCH app mamy jeszcze [Common questions](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/getting-started/livechat-apps#common-questions), ale tutaj nie wiem jakie mogłby być inne pytania niż te, które mamy przy LCH...o autoryzacji mamy w FAQ przy autoryzacji....pomyślałam, że może pytanko czy mogę zarabiac na stworzonych apkach? Albo czyj est jakaś opcja aby apka była sprawdzona przez nasz zespół pod względem jakościowym?

Author: Opcja 1 - W DevRelu najlepiej pytać Kubę o takie coś?

---
weight: 6
category: "getting-started"
subcategory: "helpdesk-apps"
title: "Building HelpDesk apps"
tagline: "Learn all the ways to build upon HelpDesk."

> desc: "Wanna create HelpDesk app, implement your own chat widget, or automate some tasks? It's all possible. Make minor tweaks for your team, build integrations with other platforms, and create new products in the HelpDesk ecosystem."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
desc: "Do you want to create a HelpDesk app and automate some tasks or processes for your agents? Now, it's all possible. Implement convenient tweaks for your team, build integrations with other platforms, and create new products in the HelpDesk ecosystem."
```

---

> # Introduction

Author: Póki co tyle ponieważ nie ma jeszcze wszystkiego na labsie

[Developer Console](https://developers.livechat.com/console/) allows you not only to create [LiveChat Apps](/getting-started/livechat-apps). It is also possible to develop integrations for HelpDesk and publish them on the Marketplace.

> Connect your HelpDesk to an external tool or service, implement your own chat widget and extend HelpDesk user interface, or automate various tasks. Configure different functionalities, integrate with the LiveChat ecosystem, or create your own custom actions for agents in HelpDesk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connect your HelpDesk to an external tool or service, extend HelpDesk user interface, or automate various tasks. Configure different functionalities, integrate with the LiveChat ecosystem, or create your own custom actions for agents in HelpDesk.
```

# App capabilities

LiveChat provides developers with multiple tools which allow your app to do many different things, for example:

- Integrate with other products and services
- Extend HelpDesk user interfaces
- Create your own custom actions for agents in HelpDesk
- Automate tasks with webhooks
- Let users sign in to your service with Sign in with LiveChat

> If you plan to make your app public so everyone can use it, check out our simple [monetization](/monetization/how-to-monetize-apps) and distribution tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you plan to make your app public for everyone, check out our [monetization](/monetization/how-to-monetize-apps) and distribution tools.
```
